American Culture

Keep in mind that Americans
?     tend to come across as very laid back, jovial and informal;
?     are taught to sell themselves, so you better stand out;
?     have competitive and individualistic culture with employees generally being highly motivated by their careers;
?     cultivate a casual business environment and do necessarily seek to build personal relationships with business partners.

Values
? 	informality (despite all of the small talk, don’t be mislead into thinking you can completely relax in business settings);
? 	freedom;

? 	sticking to schedule, promptness;
?     one thing at a time, no interruptions;
?     good organization over flexibility;
?     novelty (love to give new things a chance).
Greetings
?      greetings are usually informal, with first names often used in initial introductions;
?      a firm handshake is the most common greeting in professional settings, however, it can seem overly-formal and awkward in casual settings as many people hug in this case;

?      being a newcomer, take the initiative to introduce yourself as it is expected by your American counterpart, and be the first person to offer your hand as it can reflect confidence;
?      maintaining the direct eye contact shows that you are paying full attention to what is being said;
?      a smile is often interpreted as a sign of openness, friendship and respect, and is frequently used to break the ice;

?      the majority of Americans greet each other by saying “How are you?” (which is a form of greeting rather than an enquiry about your wellbeing, so the common response is “I’m good, thanks. How are you?”; giving an answer that is deeply personal or less positive can make the situation uncomfortable);
?      in opening deeper conversation, Americans often ask people about their occupation (e.g. “So, what do you do?”).
Communication
Verbal
?      business communication is quite direct, precise, simple and clear:
0 	the entire message is conveyed verbally, less attention to body language (straight-talking);
0 	people are expected to ‘get to the point’;
?      courtesy is not disregarded, but some nuances might be missed;
?      despite being explicit communicators, they are in the middle of the spectrum when it comes to giving negative feedback;

?      quite enthusiastic, assertive and persuasive speech;
?      not very modest so people are expected to speak about their achievements;
?      may speak at higher volumes in public spaces, however loud or emotional outbursts are not appreciated;
?      uncomfortable with silence and often try to fill the gap in conversation.
Non-Verbal
?   	direct eye contact demonstrates warmth, openness, honesty and approachability;
?   	touching someone of another gender in the workplace can be misinterpreted as sexual harassment;
?   	appreciate a fair amount of personal space;
?   	nod or show some kind of sign that you are listening during a conversation;
?   	smiling is a simple gesture of goodwill.
Business culture
? 	business cards are usually only exchanged if there is a need for contact information;
? 	besides initial pleasantries, there is not much time for familiarisation, so aim to establish your reputation/brand first and foremost;
? 	more interested in your experience, credentials and the longevity of your company;
?     start negotiations by stating the position from the very beginning;
?     bargaining is done by negotiating a give-and-take scenario;
?     people may “cut to the chase” very quickly and be hasty to reach decisions;
?     seek a verbal agreement sealed with a handshake at the end of the meeting, such as, “Have we got a deal?”, but nothing is finalised until it is on paper;
?     tend to work longer and harder than other Westerners;

?     can be opportunistic in business, so more inclined to take a risk if it has big payoffs;

?     address disputes with someone directly and privately;
?     task-based trust (you do good work consistently, you are reliable, I trust you).

Other considerations
?     sensitive topics include terrorism, Islam, slavery and race relations;
?     in the USA, the date is written as month/day/year;
?     black people have preferred their race to be referred to as simply “black” (the terms “Afro-Americans”, “people of colour”, “coloured people” might be insulting);
?     people from Spanish-speaking countries and of Latin America find the terms “Hispanics”, “Latinos” offensive. 

Do’s & don’ts
Do’s
?   	arrive on time or even slightly early;
?   	use inductive arguments focusing first on practical application before moving to theory;
?   	speak in a practical and concrete manner (application-first approach);
?   	it is okay to be open and proud about your success;
?   	giving advice or criticism, be sure to emphasise one’s good points before and after doing so;
?   	helping someone, try to do so in a way that gives them the opportunity to help themselves (indirect charity can imply that the person is a burden on others).

Don’ts
?   	avoid topics such as gun control, the death penalty, abortion, civil rights, etc;
?   	avoid theoretical or philosophical discussions;
?   	do not make fun of the United States;
?   	never make racial slurs.
 

American English
In American English nothing is simply nice but amazing, extraordinary, or fantastic. For example, if you’re making a sales pitch don’t be too humble. What you have to offer is not just nice, it’s the best!



US English varies from British English spelling. The main differences are: use of “ize” instead of “ise” (e.g. organize, realize, criticize). Words ending in “or” instead of “our” (e.g. color, labor, honor), words ending in “er” where Brits would use “re” (e.g. center, theater, meter) and words ending in “og” instead of “ogue” (e.g. Analog, catalog).

